# Contributing to `cargo-msrv`

Thank you for your interest of contributing to [`cargo-msrv`](https://github.com/foresterre/cargo-msrv). We sincerely appriciate your interest. 
Please remember that this project is a "labor of love" and that there's humans on the other end too :).

## Finding help

Always feel free to open an [issue](https://github.com/foresterre/cargo-msrv/issues), or ask a question on the [discussion forum](https://github.com/foresterre/cargo-msrv/discussions).

If you want to ask a more private question, or report a security issue, please send a mail to the e-mail address
found on [foresterre's](https://github.com/foresterre) profile. Please do not send invitations to test your latest
LLM, join your (private) community or other advertisements or spam. Thanks!

## AI / LLM Policy

Contributions to `cargo-msrv` which include content generated by large language models (LLM's) or other generational tools
where the content (e.g. code) is not created or written exclusively by a human MUST (1) include a remark in the pull
request denoting in what way LLM's were used and (2) any commit which includes content generated by LLM's must disclose
this, and at least include the following footer in its commit message:

```
Assisted-by: [MODEL]
```

For example:

```
<subject>

<commit message>

Assisted-by: claude-opus-4-7
```

NB: Use an `Assisted-by:` footer (NEVER use `Co-authored-by:`) to attribute LLM/agent involvement in commits. 

### Why?

The reason for rule (1) is twofold, and exists for expectation management and fairness of the maintainer(s)'s time and sanity.
 
The first reason deals with joy. We have spent thousands of hours of our own time maintaining and contributing to open
source projects. Our day job of being a Software Engineer became one of our hobbies. To stay motivated, we need to keep
software engineering fun in the long term. Over the past years, we found that interacting with LLMs can suck the joy
out of some parts. In open source especially, we like to work with and help humans, as human interactions feel meaningful
and fulfilling. When reviewing PR's, it's no longer clear whether our attempt to help reaches a human, or whether we're
talking to a machine. If we're going to spend our free time we must take long-term motivation into account. 

The second reason deals with maintainer burden. The [Servo](https://github.com/servo/book/blob/2c03d89bf2d54edbab1f02c1f8100becadb6478d/src/contributing/getting-started.md#ai-contributions) project put it succinctly:

> Reviewers depend on contributors to write and test their code before submitting it. We have found that these tools make
> it easy to generate large amounts of plausible-looking code that the contributor does not understand, 
> is often untested, and does not function properly. This is a drain on the (already limited) time and energy
> of our reviewers.

Rule (2) is in place to make it easier to find back the commits authored by LLMs, if for any reason they'll need to be
removed or traced in the future. This rule deals with ethics and copyright. The AI policy of [Servo]([Servo](https://github.com/servo/book/blob/2c03d89bf2d54edbab1f02c1f8100becadb6478d/src/contributing/getting-started.md#ai-contributions))
again provides succinct reasoning for both, which we agree with.

On copyright:

> Publicly available models are trained on copyrighted content, both accidentally and intentionally, and their output
> often includes that content verbatim. Since the legality of this is uncertain, these contributions may violate the
> licenses of copyrighted works.

And on ethics:

> AI tools require an unreasonable amount of energy and water to build and operate, their models are built with heavily
> exploited workers in unacceptable working conditions, and they are being used to undermine labor and justify layoffs.
> These are harms that we do not want to perpetuate, even if only indirectly.

Note that unlike Servo we currently do not ban code generated (in full or in part) by LLMs outright, but we do require
honest disclosure when such tools are used.

With the `Assisted-by:` footer, we can trace any code written by LLM's, and rewrite and/or remove it as appropriate.
By including the LLM `[MODEL]` and version, it should be reasonably possible to refer back to the (public) inputs on
which the model was trained, if they would be published. This is the very least that should happen. While `Assisted-by:`
footers aren't quite the same level as something like [agent-trace](https://agent-trace.dev/), the tooling _today_ can
handle it, and it's not much of a burden to ask.

We reflect on LLM use regularly as the landscape evolves, and may revise this policy in the future. If you want to
provide feedback on our policy, feel free to open a topic on the [discussion forum](https://github.com/foresterre/cargo-msrv/discussions). Please be kind.
